# Trump Pays a French Company a Billion Dollars to Increase Your Electric Bill - The American Prospect

Source: https://prospect.org/2026/03/25/trump-energy-wind-farms-orsted-cancel-project-total-energies-new-york-north-carolina/

---

Trump Pays a French Company a Billion Dollars to Increase Your Electric Bill - The American Prospect
Get the latest stories from the
Prospect
delivered right to your inbox for the in-depth analysis you need.
The Daily Prospect
A daily dose of the ideas, politics and power that shape our world, in your inbox weekday mornings.
Today On TAP
Weekday newsletter features commentary from Robert Kuttner, Harold Meyerson and more, plus links to what's trending at Prospect.org.
Weekend Reads
The best of the week, curated by the editors of The American Prospect, delivered Saturday mornings.
Pop-up newsletters
Limited series newsletters on timely topics, such as the debt limit challenge, budget negotiations and more.
Sign up
Get the latest stories from The
Prospect
delivered right to your inbox for the in-depth analysis you need.
The Daily Prospect
Today On TAP
Weekend Reads
Pop-up newsletters
Sign up
Skip to content
Home
/
Energy and the Environment
/
Trump Pays a French Company a Billion Dollars to Increase Your Electric Bill
Two wind energy projects off the coasts of New York and North Carolina would have generated enough electricity to power nearly a million and a half homes.
Credit:
Jenny Kane/AP Photo
Say what you will about Donald Trump, he’s a man who tends to fixate on simple ideas. One
reported reason
for his biliously hostile anti-immigrant policy back in 2016, for instance, was that his aides used “build the wall” as a mnemonic device. Even in 2014, Trump tended to ramble incoherently while delivering a speech, so this served as a way to focus his attention and get him to repeat it a billion times.
Another Trump fixation is “wind farms bad.”
From what I can tell
, this one is pure personal pique dating back to the time that the British government built an offshore wind farm visible from his golf course in Scotland. Trump has the typical wealthy NIMBY attitude toward anything that changes the view from his various properties, and also bears a huge grudge when he is unable to obtain whatever he wants through the legal system.
More from Ryan Cooper
Thus, as president, Trump has mounted a full-scale assault on offshore wind—repealing Biden’s renewable-power subsidies, adding a whole bunch more regulatory red tape to renewable investment, and attempting to illegally cancel several huge projects that were already near completion. So far, Trump has lost every subsequent court case, but of late his administration has come up with an innovative new strategy: bribery. Rather than harassing the French developer TotalEnergies to drop two planned wind farm projects, the administration offered it
nearly a billion dollars
to
not
build them.
This, alas, worked great, at least when the bribe covered the company’s costs. The Danish company Ørsted naturally fought Trump’s
attempted cancellation
of the Sunrise Wind project, which was nearly complete, because it would have led to billions in losses. But TotalEnergies was happy to take Trump’s proposed buyout of the leases it bought under the Biden administration, in exchange for some incentives to invest in oil and gas, particularly a liquefied natural gas export terminal in Texas. The projects were not started yet, and the company has historically worked in fossil fuels anyway. It was a “pragmatic” decision,
according to
TotalEnergies CEO Patrick Pouyanné.
The two projects were to be located off the coasts of New York and North Carolina; they would have generated enough electricity to power roughly one million and 300,000 homes, respectively.
The gratuitous stupidity of this is almost impossible to exaggerate. Federal taxpayers lose $928 million. Utilities in New York and North Carolina lose power generation projects that they were counting on and will likely have to turn to natural gas to make up the difference. The price of that gas in turn is shooting up, while the price of wind has been in structural decline for decades, and so power bills in those states will increase markedly relative to where they would have been. Emissions go up, hurting the climate. And Texas probably gets some more investment in oil and gas, meaning yet more higher prices and emissions.
By my count, this makes it a lose-lose-lose-lose-lose policy, and that’s not counting increased pollution. That’s President Deals in a nutshell.
The only arguable winner is TotalEnergies, which, again,
is French
. It’s not even necessary to give the company any incentives to invest more in oil and gas at this moment, thanks to the aforementioned high prices that are locked in for months if not years at this point. The “America First!” president is giving a foreign company a large windfall profit for no reason.
The National Security Case for Renewable Energy
And even here, Trump is arguably harming TotalEnergies’ long-term interests. The company will get a quick profit thanks to Trump forcing America to double down on filthy, dangerous, expensive, and outdated energy sources, but the rest of the world either is or soon will be sprinting as fast as possible in the other direction. Chances are good America will turn back toward renewables in the future as well. Despite his efforts, Trump has only slowed, not stopped, the transition to renewable energy. Offshore wind projects are not easy to build, and TotalEnergies is missing out on a great opportunity to build some expertise and a track record of success.
The fact that all this is happening while Trump is waging a comprehensively deranged war on Iran really puts it into the highest plane of idiocy. On the one hand, this war—a clear purpose of which Trump has still not articulated, probably because he doesn’t have one—has choked off maybe a fifth of the global supply of oil and gas production, blown a huge and rapidly growing hole in global energy supplies, and hence caused the price of oil and gas to skyrocket. As I was drafting this article,
The Wall Street Journal
reported
that Trump is likely to send 3,000 82nd Airborne troops into Iran to do … something?
On the other hand, Trump is spending a billion taxpayer dollars to prevent the development of domestic energy sources that aren’t exposed to the global commodities markets, instead subsidizing the construction of more gas export infrastructure so the American consumer can be even more exposed to global price shocks caused by his drunken-maniac foreign policy.
Pollsters tell us that voter anger at President Biden over high prices was a key factor in Trump winning the 2024 election. Despite that, it is hard to imagine more ways in which Trump could be making prices go up faster.
Read more
‘Project Hail Mary’ Shows What Real Heroism Looks Like
It isn’t shooting the bad guy. It’s sacrificing to save your alien rock pal.
by
Ryan Cooper
March 28, 2026
Trump’s Billion-Dollar French Boondoggle Gets Even Dumber
He is paying TotalEnergies a billion dollars to do natural gas investments it is already doing.
by
Ryan Cooper
March 26, 2026
March 26, 2026
Ol’ Donny Trump Has Really Stepped in It This Time
In Iran, he finally created a jam for himself it will not be easy to wriggle out of.
by
Ryan Cooper
March 20, 2026
March 20, 2026
Ryan Cooper
rcooper@prospect.org
Ryan Cooper is a senior editor at The American Prospect, and author of How Are You Going to Pay for That?: Smart Answers to the Dumbest Question in Politics. He was previously a national correspondent for The Week. His work has also appeared in The Nation, The New Republic, and Current Affairs.
More by Ryan Cooper
Sign in
Close
Continue with Google
Or
Enter the code sent to your email
Email address
Enter your password
Sign in by entering the code we sent to
, or clicking the magic link in the email.
Continue
Resend code
Email me a one-time code instead
Forgot password
Create an account
Sign in to an existing account
Go back
Continue
Set a password (optional)
Link
Copy link