# Myanmar military chief Min Aung Hlaing steps down, eyes presidency

Source: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/asia/myanmar-military-junta-chief-min-aung-hlaing-steps-down-eyes-presidency-6025011

---

Myanmar military chief Min Aung Hlaing steps down, eyes presidency - CNA
Skip to main content
Close
Close
Top Stories
Asia
East Asia
Singapore
World
Commentary
CNA Explains
Sustainability
Business
Sport
Latest News
Insider
TODAY
Big Read
Up Close
In Pixels
Ground Up
Voices
Adulting
Mental Health Matters
Watch
Live TV
News Reports
Documentaries & Shows
TV Schedule
Listen
CNA938 Live
Podcasts
Radio Schedule
Special Reports
Singapore Parliament
Mental Health
Interactives
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Women
Wellness
Living
Style & Beauty
Dining
Travel
Luxury
Experiences
Obsessions
People
Remarkable Living
Sustainability
Newsletters
CNA Eyewitness
Send us a news tip
Events & Partnerships
Branded Content
Business Blueprint
Health Matters
The Asian Traveller
Brand Studio
Learning Minds
Weather
Edition:
Singapore
Indonesia
Asia
World
Search
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Follow CNA
Follow our news
Facebook
X
Youtube
LinkedIn
RSS
Recent Searches
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Advertisement
Advertisement
Asia
Myanmar military chief Min Aung Hlaing steps down, eyes presidency
Min Aung Hlaing spent a decade jostling with civilian leaders before mounting a 2021 coup, jailing Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and triggering a vicious civil war that is still being fought.
Myanmar's military leader Senior General Min Aung Hlaing participates in a parade commemorating the 81st Armed Forces Day in Naypyidaw, Myanmar, Mar 27, 2026. (File photo: Reuters/Stringer)
30 Mar 2026 03:54PM
(Updated: 30 Mar 2026 06:10PM)
Bookmark
Bookmark
Share
WhatsApp
Telegram
Facebook
Twitter
Email
LinkedIn
Set CNA as your preferred source on Google
Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.
Read a summary of this article on FAST.
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
Min Aung Hlaing stepped down as Myanmar's armed forces chief on Monday (Mar 30) to seek the presidency, the latest step in the generals'
efforts to maintain power
behind the facade of a civilian administration, five years after they led a coup against an elected government.
The move follows a
controversial election
held in December and January that was won by a military-backed party but widely derided as a sham by the United Nations and many Western countries.
The coup that ousted the democratically elected government of Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi prompted mass protests that developed into a nationwide uprising after the military responded with brutal force.
The civil war, which continues to rage, has killed nearly 93,000 people, displaced more than 3.6 million people, and further damaged an already weak economy.
CNA Games
Guess Word
Crack the word, one row at a time
Buzzword
Create words using the given letters
Mini Sudoku
Tiny puzzle, mighty brain teaser
Mini Crossword
Small grid, big challenge
Word Search
Spot as many words as you can
Show More
Show Less
Despite the fighting, the junta organised new elections, which excluded Suu Kyi's party and other opposition groups, ensuring the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party would sweep the polls.
Min Aung Hlaing has long had his eyes on officially becoming president, even though the civil war has dented the military's prestige and hold over the country, Reuters has reported.
"This has been Min Aung Hlaing's goal all along," said independent analyst Htin Kyaw Aye.
"It's just a shift from ruling as a military leader to ruling as president."
Related:
Myanmar military signals leadership change ahead of presidential vote
ASEAN does not recognise Myanmar's elections, which military-backed party claims to have won
PATH TO THE PRESIDENCY
n the lower house of the newly convened parliament, Min Aung Hlaing - who had commanded Myanmar's armed forces since 2011 - was one of two people named as vice-presidential candidates by lawmakers.
The country's upper house will also nominate a vice-presidential candidate, with both houses to select a president from the three in a later vote. A date for that vote has not been announced.
"Senior General Min Aung Hlaing is proposed as a vice-presidential candidate," USDP lawmaker Kyaw Kyaw Htay said on the floor of the lower house of parliament, according to a live broadcast of proceedings on state media.
Born to a family from Myanmar's south, Min Aung Hlaing studied law before entering the military and rising steadily through the ranks, culminating in his promotion to military chief on this day 15 years ago.
Considered a ruthless operator, Min Aung Hlaing has relied on a finely tuned ability to manage the country's elites, using tactics that include handing important positions to loyalists and punishing political rivals.
Myanmar junta chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing hands over a flag to newly appointed Commander-in-Chief General Ye Win Oo during a ceremony in Naypyitaw, Myanmar, Mar 30, 2026. (Photo: Reuters/Myanmar Military True News Information Team)
TRUSTED LOYALIST
At a separate ceremony in the capital Naypyitaw, Min Aung Hlaing handed over the position of commander-in-chief of the armed forces to Ye Win Oo, a veteran officer from his inner circle.
"I will continue to serve the interests of the people, the military, and the national interests of the country," he said in a speech broadcast by military-owned media.
Ye Win Oo was appointed Myanmar's intelligence chief in 2020 and was promoted to commander-in-chief of the army earlier this month.
"The fact that he received two major promotions within two months clearly demonstrates that he is one of Min Aung Hlaing's most trusted loyalists," said Aung Kyaw Soe, an independent analyst.
A graduate of the Officer Training School - rather than the elite Defence Services Academy that has long been a crucible for the officer corps - Ye Win Oo previously led an infantry division and the Southwestern Command in the Ayeyarwady delta in the country's south.
"Since the coup, he has retained the rank of general and held one of the most sensitive portfolios at the apex of the military administration," the Institute for Strategy and Policy – Myanmar, a think tank based in Thailand, wrote in a March analysis.
"Even so, General Ye Win Oo appears to lack the breadth of leadership experience that spans both battlefield command and institutional administration."
Related:
Myanmar junta plans 'super-body' to tighten grip on military, new government
Myanmar election offers little change to political reality, analysts say
LONG-STANDING GOAL
Min Aung Hlaing is a member of the Dawei ethnic group, who are often seen as part of Myanmar's Burmese majority but have a distinct cultural identity.
He spent his early childhood in central Myanmar, where his father was head of the arts department at a teacher training college, he told an interviewer in 2020.
Min Aung Hlaing studied law before entering the military and rising steadily through the ranks, culminating in his promotion to military chief on this day 15 years ago.
Even before the coup, Min Aung Hlaing was persona non grata in many countries for commanding a 2017 military crackdown on the Rohingya ethnic minority that drove about 750,000 people into Bangladesh.
He was banned from Facebook for stoking hate speech, heavily sanctioned and the International Criminal Court's chief prosecutor is seeking his arrest for crimes against humanity.
A rigid military leader and considered a ruthless operator, Min Aung Hlaing has relied on a finely tuned ability to manage the country's elites, using tactics that include handing important positions to loyalists and punishing political rivals.
He long had his eyes on becoming the country's president, even though Myanmar's raging civil war has dented the military's prestige and hold over the country, Reuters has reported.
"This has been Min Aung Hlaing's goal all along," said independent analyst Htin Kyaw Aye.
"It's just a shift from ruling as a military leader to ruling as president."
Source: Agencies/rk
Newsletter
Morning Brief
Subscribe to CNA’s Morning Brief
An automated curation of our top stories to start your day.
Sign up for our newsletters
Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox
Subscribe here
Get the CNA app
Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories
Download here
Get WhatsApp alerts
Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app
Join here
Related Topics
Myanmar
Myanmar election
Min Aung Hlaing
Advertisement
Also worth reading
Content is loading...
Advertisement
Expand to read the full story
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
This browser is no longer supported
We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.
To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.
Upgraded but still having issues?
Contact us