# Brent eyes record monthly rise; US crude settles above $100 as Houthis join Iran war

Source: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/oil-prices-jump-after-yemeni-houthis-attack-israel-widening-iran-conflict-6024591

---

Brent eyes record monthly rise; US crude settles above $100 as Houthis join Iran war - CNA
Skip to main content
Close
Close
Top Stories
Asia
East Asia
Singapore
World
Commentary
CNA Explains
Sustainability
Business
Sport
Latest News
Insider
TODAY
Big Read
Up Close
In Pixels
Ground Up
Voices
Adulting
Mental Health Matters
Watch
Live TV
News Reports
Documentaries & Shows
TV Schedule
Listen
CNA938 Live
Podcasts
Radio Schedule
Special Reports
Singapore Parliament
Mental Health
Interactives
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Women
Wellness
Living
Style & Beauty
Dining
Travel
Luxury
Experiences
Obsessions
People
Remarkable Living
Sustainability
Newsletters
CNA Eyewitness
Send us a news tip
Events & Partnerships
Branded Content
Business Blueprint
Health Matters
The Asian Traveller
Brand Studio
Learning Minds
Weather
Edition:
Singapore
Indonesia
Asia
World
Search
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Follow CNA
Follow our news
Facebook
X
Youtube
LinkedIn
RSS
Recent Searches
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Advertisement
Advertisement
Business
Brent eyes record monthly rise; US crude settles above $100 as Houthis join Iran war
FILE PHOTO: Oil, miniatures of oil barrels, oil pump jack and U.S. dollar banknote are seen in this illustration taken, June 6, 2023. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustratio/File Photo
30 Mar 2026 06:17AM
(Updated: 31 Mar 2026 04:15AM)
Bookmark
Bookmark
Share
WhatsApp
Telegram
Facebook
Twitter
Email
LinkedIn
Set CNA as your preferred source on Google
Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.
Read a summary of this article on FAST.
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
NEW YORK, March 30 : Oil prices closed higher on Monday, with Brent heading for a record monthly rise, while U.S. crude futures settled above $100 a barrel for the first time since 2022 after Yemeni Houthis widened the Iran war by launching their first attacks on Israel.
Brent futures settled up 21 cents, or 0.2 per cent, at $112.78 a barrel. Earlier in the session, Brent had climbed more than $4 to a high of $116.89. U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures finished up $3.24, or 3.3 per cent at $102.88, its highest since July 2022.
Conflict has spread across the Middle East since U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran began on February 28, stoking concerns over shipping routes around the Arabian Peninsula and the Red Sea.
Israel’s military said it intercepted two drones launched from Yemen on Monday, two days after Iran-aligned Houthis fired missiles at Israel for the first time since the start of the war. The Houthis have yet to target shipping in the Red Sea, which handles about 15 per cent of global maritime traffic.
CNA Games
Guess Word
Crack the word, one row at a time
Buzzword
Create words using the given letters
Mini Sudoku
Tiny puzzle, mighty brain teaser
Mini Crossword
Small grid, big challenge
Word Search
Spot as many words as you can
Show More
Show Less
If the Houthis attack shipping and shut down the southern entrance to the Red Sea, it could drive prices up by $5 to $10 per barrel, according to Robert Yawger, director of energy futures at Mizuho.
Iran’s effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint for roughly a fifth of global oil and gas supplies, has sent oil prices up about 57 per cent this month, the steepest monthly jump in LSEG data going back to 1988, exceeding gains made during the 1990 Gulf War. U.S. crude, meanwhile, has climbed by 53 per cent for its biggest monthly gain since May 2020.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said on Monday that the global oil market is well supplied, with more vessels travelling through the Strait of Hormuz.
Two Chinese container ships sailed through the Strait of Hormuz on their second attempt to leave the Gulf after turning back on Friday, ship-tracking data showed.
TRUMP ISSUES IRAN WARNING AGAIN
U.S. President Donald Trump warned on Monday that Iran's energy plants and oil wells would be obliterated if it does not open the Strait of Hormuz, after Iran described U.S. peace proposals as "unrealistic" and fired waves of missiles at Israel.
Previously, Trump said he would pause attacks on Iran's energy network until April 6. Trump has said the United States and Iran have been meeting "directly and indirectly" and that Tehran's new leaders have been "very reasonable."
"Trump's extended deadline of April 6 - when the U.S. could potentially resume attacks on Iranian energy infrastructure – has had no reassuring effect. The market is now asking for concrete signs of de-escalation, not just rhetoric," SEB Research said in a note.
In a bid to assuage investors, the Group of Seven finance leaders on Monday said they stand ready to take "all necessary measures" to safeguard energy market stability and limit broader economic spillovers from recent volatility.
And in the United States, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Monday said the U.S. central bank can wait to see how the Iran war affects the economy and inflation, indicating that a rate hike may not be on the cards.
SAUDI, NIGERIA OIL FLOWS PICK UP
Saudi crude exports redirected from the Strait of Hormuz to Yanbu port in the Red Sea reached 4.658 million barrels per day last week, data from analytics firm Kpler showed. That was a sharp increase from an average of 770,000 bpd in January and February.
Nigeria, a member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, has scheduled exports of four key Nigerian crude oil grades at 807,000 barrels per day in May, 3.1 per cent higher than the 783,000 bpd scheduled to load in April, according to preliminary loading programs seen by Reuters.
Attacks in the Middle East, however, raised concerns about disruptions after a drone attack damaged Oman's Salalah terminal, while attacks were also reported in Kuwait and near Saudi Arabia.
In the United States, crude oil stockpiles were expected to have fallen last week, along with distillate and gasoline inventories, a preliminary Reuters poll showed on Monday. Crude inventories fell by about 1.3 million barrels in the week to March 27, according to four analysts polled by Reuters, after rising to their highest levels since June 2024 earlier in the month.
Source: Reuters
Newsletter
Week in Review
Subscribe to our Chief Editor’s Week in Review
Our chief editor shares analysis and picks of the week's biggest news every Saturday.
Sign up for our newsletters
Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox
Subscribe here
Get the CNA app
Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories
Download here
Get WhatsApp alerts
Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app
Join here
Advertisement
Also worth reading
Content is loading...
Advertisement
Expand to read the full story
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
This browser is no longer supported
We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.
To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.
Upgraded but still having issues?
Contact us