# Pakistan prepares to host peace talks as Iran accuses US of ground assault plans

Source: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/world/iran-war-pakistan-host-peace-talks-prepare-us-6024616

---

Pakistan prepares to host peace talks as Iran accuses US of ground assault plans - CNA
Skip to main content
Close
Close
Top Stories
Asia
East Asia
Singapore
World
Commentary
CNA Explains
Sustainability
Business
Sport
Latest News
Insider
TODAY
Big Read
Up Close
In Pixels
Ground Up
Voices
Adulting
Mental Health Matters
Watch
Live TV
News Reports
Documentaries & Shows
TV Schedule
Listen
CNA938 Live
Podcasts
Radio Schedule
Special Reports
Singapore Parliament
Mental Health
Interactives
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Women
Wellness
Living
Style & Beauty
Dining
Travel
Luxury
Experiences
Obsessions
People
Remarkable Living
Sustainability
Newsletters
CNA Eyewitness
Send us a news tip
Events & Partnerships
Branded Content
Business Blueprint
Health Matters
The Asian Traveller
Brand Studio
Learning Minds
Weather
Edition:
Singapore
Indonesia
Asia
World
Search
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Follow CNA
Follow our news
Facebook
X
Youtube
LinkedIn
RSS
Recent Searches
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Advertisement
Advertisement
World
Pakistan prepares to host peace talks as Iran accuses US of ground assault plans
Earlier talks between regional foreign ministers had covered potential US-Iran talks in Islamabad, although it was not immediately clear whether the US and Iran had agreed to attend.
First responders search an office building that housed the offices of the Doha-headquartered news network Al Araby TV following a missile strike earlier in the day in Tehran on Mar 29, 2026. (Photo: AFP/Atta Kenare)
30 Mar 2026 07:07AM
(Updated: 30 Mar 2026 07:56PM)
Bookmark
Bookmark
Share
WhatsApp
Telegram
Facebook
Twitter
Email
LinkedIn
Set CNA as your preferred source on Google
Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.
Read a summary of this article on FAST.
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan said on Sunday (Mar 29) it was preparing to host "meaningful talks" to end the conflict over Iran in the coming days, even though Tehran earlier accused Washington of
preparing a land assault
while seeking negotiations.
Speaking after
talks between regional foreign ministers
, Pakistan's Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar said they had covered possible ways to bring an early and permanent end to the war in the region as well as potential US-Iran talks in Islamabad.
"Pakistan will be honoured to host and facilitate meaningful talks between the two sides in the coming days, for a comprehensive and lasting settlement of the ongoing conflict," he said. It was not immediately clear whether the US and Iran had agreed to attend.
The US State Department and the White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment on potential talks in Pakistan. Complicating Pakistan's bid are the maximalist positions set out by the United States, Israel and Iran on what it would take to end the conflict.
Iran's parliament speaker Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf earlier accused the US of sending messages about possible negotiations while at the same time planning to send in troops, adding that Tehran was ready to respond if US soldiers were deployed.
"As long as the Americans seek Iran's surrender, our response is that we will never accept humiliation," he said in a message to the nation.
Foreign Ministers Badr Abdelatty of Egypt, Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, Ishaq Dar of Pakistan and Hakan Fidan of Turkey meet to discuss regional de-escalation, amid the US-Israel conflict with Iran, in Islamabad, Pakistan, on Mar 29, 2026. (Photo: Reuters via Turkish Foreign Ministry/Muammer Tan)
REGIONAL POWERS PROPOSE PLANS TO REOPEN STRAIT OF HORMUZ
Initial discussions between Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt had focused on proposals to reopen the
Strait of Hormuz
to shipping, sources familiar with the matter said.
Iran's effective blockade of oil and gas shipments through the strait since the US and Israel began attacking the country on Feb 28 is spreading
economic pain around the world
.
As the conflict entered its second month, it showed no signs of slowing.
Israel's military said it had launched over 140 air strikes on central and western Iran, including Tehran, over the 24 hours to Sunday evening, hitting ballistic missile launch sites and storage facilities, among other targets.
The director of the World Health Organization said Israel's
expanding military operations in southern Lebanon
had resulted in the death of "yet another" health worker after 51 had already been killed.
Israel says Iran-backed Hezbollah militants use medical facilities for cover, which the group denies. A chemical plant in southern Israel near the city of Beer Sheva was hit by a missile or missile debris as Israel fended off multiple salvos from Iran, prompting official warnings to the public to stay away due to "hazardous materials".
Another missile hit open ground near homes in Beer Sheva, located near several military bases, injuring 11 people.
The war has killed thousands of people and hit countries across the Middle East: major aluminium plants in Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates were damaged by air strikes over the weekend.
The UAE is seeking reparations from Iran for attacks on civilians and vital facilities and guarantees to prevent any repetition, an adviser to the president said.
Yemen's Iran-aligned Houthis
joined the conflict
on Saturday, launching their first attacks on Israel and raising the prospect they could target and thus block a second key shipping route, the Bab el-Mandeb Strait.
Security forces inspect a crater at an impact site following an Iranian missile strike in Beer Sheba, Israel, on Mar 29, 2026. (Image: Reuters)
US MARINES START ARRIVING IN MIDDLE EAST
Washington has dispatched thousands of Marines to the Middle East, with the first of two contingents arriving on Friday aboard an amphibious assault ship, the US military has said.
The Washington Post quoted US officials as saying the Pentagon was preparing for weeks of ground operations in Iran, adding that it was not yet clear if President Donald Trump would approve such plans.
Reuters has reported that the Pentagon has considered military options that could include ground forces.
Trump faces a stark choice between seeking a negotiated exit or a military escalation that risks a protracted crisis that would likely weigh further on his already low approval ratings.
Washington said last week it had offered a 15-point ceasefire plan, with a proposal to reopen the Strait of Hormuz and restrict Iran's nuclear programme, but Tehran has rejected the proposal and put forward alternatives of its own.
Also read:
Iran parliament speaker says US planning ground attack
One month into Iran war, only hard choices for Trump
ISRAEL HITS DOZENS OF TARGETS ACROSS IRAN
An Israeli official said Israel would continue carrying out strikes against Iran on what were described as military targets, adding there was no intention to scale back the campaign ahead of any possible talks between Washington and Tehran.
A building housing Qatar's Al-Araby TV in Tehran was hit on Sunday, the semi-official Mehr news agency reported.
"The missile hit. The ceiling and everything fell on our heads ... There was no military target here," said Al-Araby camera operator Mohammadreza Shademan.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said on Sunday that Iran's heavy water production plant at Khondab, which the country reported had been attacked on Friday, had suffered severe damage and is no longer operational.
The installation contains no declared nuclear material, the UN nuclear watchdog added in a social media post on X.
The increasingly unpopular war has weighed on Trump's Republican Party. Demonstrators took to city streets across the US on Saturday in protests against the conflict.
US political figures offered sharply different assessments on the duration of the conflict and its aims.
"It is going to be a matter of weeks when all of the objectives will be carried out," Republican Senate candidate Andy Barr said on the Fox News Sunday programme. "This is not going to be an occupation of Tehran."
But Democratic lawmakers said the strategy was failing, citing US casualties and Iran's ongoing attacks on nearby regions.
"This president is pushing us further and further into a conflict with no foreseeable off-ramp," Senator Cory Booker, a New Jersey Democrat, told NBC’s Meet the Press.
Energy analyst Daniel Yergin warned a prolonged war would hurt the global economy and the US, with California particularly exposed due to its reliance on imported oil.
Listen:
Source: Reuters/co
Sign up for our newsletters
Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox
Subscribe here
Get the CNA app
Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories
Download here
Get WhatsApp alerts
Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app
Join here
Related Topics
War on Iran
United States
Pakistan
Middle East
Advertisement
Also worth reading
Content is loading...
Advertisement
Expand to read the full story
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
This browser is no longer supported
We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.
To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.
Upgraded but still having issues?
Contact us