# Bangladesh turns off lights as Mideast war deepens energy crunch

Source: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/asia/bangladesh-turns-lights-mideast-war-deepens-energy-crunch-6025386

---

Bangladesh turns off lights as Mideast war deepens energy crunch - CNA
Skip to main content
Close
Close
Top Stories
Asia
East Asia
Singapore
World
Commentary
CNA Explains
Sustainability
Business
Sport
Latest News
Insider
TODAY
Big Read
Up Close
In Pixels
Ground Up
Voices
Adulting
Mental Health Matters
Watch
Live TV
News Reports
Documentaries & Shows
TV Schedule
Listen
CNA938 Live
Podcasts
Radio Schedule
Special Reports
Singapore Parliament
Mental Health
Interactives
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Women
Wellness
Living
Style & Beauty
Dining
Travel
Luxury
Experiences
Obsessions
People
Remarkable Living
Sustainability
Newsletters
CNA Eyewitness
Send us a news tip
Events & Partnerships
Branded Content
Business Blueprint
Health Matters
The Asian Traveller
Brand Studio
Learning Minds
Weather
Edition:
Singapore
Indonesia
Asia
World
Search
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Follow CNA
Follow our news
Facebook
X
Youtube
LinkedIn
RSS
Recent Searches
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
Budget 2026
artificial intelligence
China
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Advertisement
Advertisement
Asia
Bangladesh turns off lights as Mideast war deepens energy crunch
A man refuels his motorcycle at a fuel station, as concerns grow over fuel supplies following US-Israel conflict with Iran, in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on Mar 6, 2026. (Photo: REUTERS/Mohammad Ponir Hossain)
30 Mar 2026 04:20PM
Bookmark
Bookmark
Share
WhatsApp
Telegram
Facebook
Twitter
Email
LinkedIn
Set CNA as your preferred source on Google
Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.
Read a summary of this article on FAST.
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
DHAKA: Bangladesh has ordered civil servants to switch off the lights and turn down air conditioning to save power as the
Mideast war worsens an energy crunch
, officials said on Monday (Mar 30).
The South Asian nation of 170 million people imports 95 per cent of its oil and gas needs.
The Ministry of Public Administration issued a string of orders regarding office attendance and saving electricity and fuel, ministry official Sakhawat Hossain told AFP on Monday.
"Only the necessary number of lights, fans, air conditioners, and other electrical equipment should be used", the order issued late on Sunday read.
It also reminded workers to turn off the lights when they leave, and ordered that air conditioning temperatures must be set at 25 degrees Celsius, or warmer.
Bangladesh has said it is seeking loans of around US$2 billion from multilateral donors to tackle energy worries.
The government has already taken several measures to curb fuel consumption, including setting limits on fuel purchases, halting production at most fertiliser factories, and deploying police to patrol filling stations.
Related:
Commentary: Could this energy crisis be worse for the global economy than COVID-19?
Pakistan prepares to host peace talks as Iran accuses US of ground assault plans
Source: AFP/ec
Newsletter
Morning Brief
Subscribe to CNA’s Morning Brief
An automated curation of our top stories to start your day.
Sign up for our newsletters
Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox
Subscribe here
Get the CNA app
Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories
Download here
Get WhatsApp alerts
Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app
Join here
Related Topics
Bangladesh
War on Iran
energy crisis
Advertisement
Also worth reading
Content is loading...
Advertisement
Expand to read the full story
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
This browser is no longer supported
We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.
To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.
Upgraded but still having issues?
Contact us