# Telangana Assembly adopts resolutions condemning West Asia war, seeking ban on herbicide

Source: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/telangana/telangana-assembly-adopts-resolutions-condemning-west-asia-war-seeking-ban-on-herbicide/article70803125.ece

---

Telangana Assembly adopts resolutions condemning West Asia war, seeking ban on herbicide - The Hindu
Telangana Assembly adopts resolutions condemning West Asia war, seeking ban on herbicide
Members express concern over the increasing deaths of farmers, farmworkers after accidental, intentional consumption of the weedicide
Updated
- March 30, 2026 07:16 pm IST - HYDERABAD
The Hindu Bureau
READ LATER
SEE ALL
Remove
HYDERABAD
The Telangana Legislative Assembly on Monday adopted two resolutions unopposed — one condemning the ongoing Middle East war between Israel/US and Iran and requesting the Centre to take initiative to stop the war and another requesting the Centre to ban paraquat dichloride, a weedicide/herbicide, that is claiming the lives of a number of farmers and farm workers.
Moving the resolution condemning the Middle East war, Deputy Chief Minister Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka expressed fear that if continued the ongoing war could lead to the Third World War. He stated that the fallout of the West Asia war was only on that particular region but on the entire world as it was creating huge problems in getting imports of petroleum and other products to many countries and impacting their economies.
Thousands of people, including women and children, had already died in the war as the two sides were resorting to attacking and dropping missiles/bombs on schools and destitute homes besides other installations. Members of BJP wanted an opportunity to speak on the resolution but the Chair did not allow them.
Minister for Agriculture Tummala Nageswara Rao moved the resolution requesting the Centre to impose a ban immediately on manufacturing, import, storage and sale of ‘paraquat dichloride’, a herbicide being widely used by the farming community to control weeds. He stated that it was claiming the lives of a large number of farmers and farmworkers every year and it was already banned in about 70 countries.
Member Kadiyam Srihari said 98% of those who had consumed the herbicide either accidentally or intentionally in a fit of emotion due to distress or other reasons had succumbed as the chances of survival after consuming it were very remote since there was no antidote for it. About 2,000 farmers and farmworkers were dying every year by consuming the weedicide.
Mr. Srihari and a few other members of the Congress suggested the State government to ban it as Odisha and Kerala did since the States have powers to ban it for 60 to 90 days and extend it every time till the Centre bans it. Several other members also spoke on the resolution and explained the adverse impact of the herbicide on the society.
Published
- March 30, 2026 07:06 pm IST
Read  Comments
Copy link
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Telegram
LinkedIn
WhatsApp
Reddit
READ LATER
SEE ALL
Remove
PRINT
0
/
0
Sign in to unlock member-only benefits!
Access 10 free stories every month
Save stories to read later
Access to comment on every story
Sign-up/manage your newsletter subscriptions with a single click
Get notified by email for early access to discounts & offers on our products
✕
Looks like you are already logged in from more than 5 devices!
To continue logging in, remove at least one device from the below list
Log out
Log Out from all devices
Terms & conditions
|
Institutional Subscriber
Comments
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our
community guidelines
for posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.