# People must protest against attack on Iran, India’s foreign policy: N. Ram

Source: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/protest-against-imperialist-attacks-on-iran-and-indias-foreign-policy-n-ram/article70800220.ece

---

People must protest against attack on Iran, India’s foreign policy: N. Ram - The Hindu
People must protest against attack on Iran, India’s foreign policy: N. Ram
Mr. Ram said that the BJP government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi adopted a “shameful policy” after the “treacherous” attack on Iran by the United States and Israel
Updated
- March 30, 2026 02:30 am IST - New Delhi
The Hindu Bureau
READ LATER
SEE ALL
Remove
N. Ram, Director, The Hindu speaks during a seminar on Imperial Aggression & its Impact at Surjeet Bhavan in New Delhi on March 29, 2026.
| Photo Credit: Shashi Shekhar Kashyap
People must protest against imperialist attacks on Iran and other countries, as well as India’s current foreign policy, said N. Ram, Director of The Hindu Group, on Sunday (March 29, 2026).
“We have come to a stage where people must protest against this transformation (of India’s foreign policy), side by side, with our struggle against imperialist attacks on various states and the people of those countries. I would like to express on behalf of everyone here, solidarity with those who are facing imperialist attacks in West Asia, in Latin America, and elsewhere,” Mr. Ram said at a seminar on “Imperialist Aggression and its Impact” at HKS Surjeet Bhavan in central Delhi.
The event was attended by Cuban Ambassador to India Juan Carlos Marsan Aguilera, senior journalist Seema Chisti, and leaders from the Left parties.
Mr. Ram said that the BJP government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi adopted a “shameful policy” after the “treacherous” attack on Iran by the United States and Israel.
India’s West Asia reset — more sinned against than sinning
“Israel and the United States treacherously launched an attack on Iran and assassinated the head of the country, the Supreme Leader... And India, I think, is one of the worst-hit countries,” he said. Mr. Ram said that “war crimes” and “humanitarian crimes” have been committed in Iran and schoolgirls have been murdered in one of the missile strikes. U.S. President Donald Trump tried to deny it, but the truth has come out, he added.
“Not only did they [India] fail to condemn the assassination of the Supreme Leader... they also created the feeling through the Prime Minister’s [Mr. Modi’s] visit to Israel, precisely at the wrong moment, that there was some kind of collusion. Or at least, this visit provided a cover for [Israel Prime Minister Benjamin] Netanyahu along with the United States to launch this atrocious attack,” Mr. Ram said.
Editorial |
Taking sides: On Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Israel
He said that the transformation of India’s foreign policy, which is “deeply” concerning, was visible in three interrelated developments. “Deepening strategic partnership with the United States, the consolidation of an overt alliance with Israel, and the weakening of India’s historical commitment to anti-colonial solidarity, especially in relation to Palestine and Iran,” he said.
Mr. Ram said that the most striking manifestation of India’s foreign policy transformation is its changing stance towards the Palestinian struggle. “Historically, India can take pride from the fact that it is one of the most consistent supporters of Palestinian rights in the developing world. So, while the Indian government today formally supports a two-state solution, the political significance of this position has been eroded, sabotaged,” he said.
Is India tailing the U.S. in its West Asia policy?
He further said that the government has avoided any serious criticism of Israeli policies and has prioritised strategic cooperation with Israel over political support for Palestinian self-determination. “And this reflects the erosion of anti-colonial internationalism within our regime. The language of solidarity with oppressed people has been replaced by the language of security partnerships, technological collaboration, and geopolitical balancing,” he said.
Commenting on India’s relationship with the U.S., he said, “Of course, we know what happened with our import of crude oil from Russia and the shameful heading in all major Indian newspapers: ‘U.S. allows India to import Russian oil for 30 days’. So, we have become a subordinate partner or ally of the United States on all these issues.”
India’s Iran stance does fuel a foreign policy debate
Ms. Chisti said that the current developments have brought home clearly the very pristine, back-to-the-basics, colonialism and imperialism. “It’s really about just annexation, in the way we read in the history books, in a very 19th Century, rapacious, basic way. So, I think the whole phrase ‘neo’ can now be safely retired, because we are dealing with colonialism 101, the very basic form of colonialism,” she said.
Mr. Aguilera said once again, the President of the United States has threatened Cuba with military action. “My friends, we take this scenario very seriously in Cuba. And we have been preparing for it, not just right now, not yesterday, but for more than 65 years... Trump says ‘I will take Cuba’. Cuba cannot be taken, believe me. Cuba is not a piece of cake. Cuba is very proud of our history, our independence, and our heroes.”
He said that Cuba, Venezuela, Iran, and Palestine are not alone. “People of our countries have millions of people in the world who are totally committed to expressing their solidarity and to reject the U.S. aggressions. Let Cuba live in peace, hands off Cuba, drop the blockade. Cuba will prevail,” he said.
Published
- March 29, 2026 10:14 pm IST
Read  Comments
Copy link
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Telegram
LinkedIn
WhatsApp
Reddit
READ LATER
SEE ALL
Remove
PRINT
Related Topics
Israel-US strikes on Iran
0
/
0
Sign in to unlock member-only benefits!
Access 10 free stories every month
Save stories to read later
Access to comment on every story
Sign-up/manage your newsletter subscriptions with a single click
Get notified by email for early access to discounts & offers on our products
✕
Looks like you are already logged in from more than 5 devices!
To continue logging in, remove at least one device from the below list
Log out
Log Out from all devices
Terms & conditions
|
Institutional Subscriber
Comments
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by our
community guidelines
for posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.