# Powell says Fed can 'wait and see' how war affects inflation

Source: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/world/powell-says-fed-can-wait-and-see-how-war-affects-inflation-6026721

---

Powell says Fed can 'wait and see' how war affects inflation - CNA
Skip to main content
Close
Close
Top Stories
Asia
East Asia
Singapore
World
Commentary
CNA Explains
Sustainability
Business
Sport
Latest News
Insider
TODAY
Big Read
Up Close
In Pixels
Ground Up
Voices
Adulting
Mental Health Matters
Watch
Live TV
News Reports
Documentaries & Shows
TV Schedule
Listen
CNA938 Live
Podcasts
Radio Schedule
Special Reports
Singapore Parliament
Mental Health
Interactives
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Women
Wellness
Living
Style & Beauty
Dining
Travel
Luxury
Experiences
Obsessions
People
Remarkable Living
Sustainability
Newsletters
CNA Eyewitness
Send us a news tip
Events & Partnerships
Branded Content
Business Blueprint
Health Matters
The Asian Traveller
Brand Studio
Learning Minds
Weather
Edition:
Singapore
Indonesia
Asia
World
Search
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
China
artificial intelligence
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Follow CNA
Follow our news
Facebook
X
Youtube
LinkedIn
RSS
Recent Searches
Trending Topics
CNA Explains
China
artificial intelligence
Indonesia
Malaysia
podcasts
Wellness
Thailand
Japan
Advertisement
Advertisement
World
Powell says Fed can 'wait and see' how war affects inflation
The Fed can “wait and see how that turns out” before acting on inflation from the Iran war, said Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell gestures while addressing students at Harvard University, Monday, Mar 30, 2026, in Cambridge, Mass. (Photo: AP/Charles Krupa)
31 Mar 2026 04:59AM
Bookmark
Bookmark
Share
WhatsApp
Telegram
Facebook
Twitter
Email
LinkedIn
Set CNA as your preferred source on Google
Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.
Read a summary of this article on FAST.
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
CAMBRIDGE, Massachusetts: Fed
eral Reserve Chair Jerome
Powell
on Monday (Mar 30) said the US central bank can wait to see how the Iran war affects the economy and inflation, noting that policymakers typically look through shocks such as those from higher oil prices.
"We feel like our policy's in a good place for us to wait and see how that turns out,"
Powell said during a question-and-answer session held as part of a macroeconomics class
at Harvard University.
His remarks appeared to calm financial markets that last week had reflected rising expectations the Fed may try to head off higher inflation by raising rates. Those rate hike bets have all but disappeared.
As the Iran war
enters its fifth week
and US gasoline prices rise to around an average of US$4 a gallon,
Powell
acknowledged the potential squeeze between the
Fed
's two mandates of full employment and price stability.
"There's sort of downside risk to the labour market, which suggests keep rates low, but there's upside risk to inflation, which suggests maybe don't keep rates low,"
Powell
said. "You've got tension between the two objectives."
But for now, he said, the
Fed
d
oes
not
have to act
even as policymakers watch
carefully for signs of deteriorating inflation expectations that could signal a need to respond.
"I
nflation expectations do appear to be well anchored beyond the short term,"
Powell
said.
The
Fed
left its overnight benchmark interest rate steady in the 3.50 per cent-3.75 per cent range earlier this month after the end of a two-day policy meeting.
Related:
Japan asks G7 to prepare more measures to stabilise energy markets
Trump threatens to obliterate Iran's oil wells, Kharg island if no deal
In a press conference after that meeting,
Powell
said he would want to see tariff-driven inflation in goods prices subside before even getting to the question of whether the central bank ought to ignore any rise in inflation stemming from the war, or to respond to it with tighter monetary policy to keep inflation from accelerating.
Powell
noted
on Monday
that inflation has been running above the c
entral bank's
2 per cent target for about five years, boosted by a series of shocks: the collision of strong demand and constrained supply as the world reopened from the COVID-19 pandemic shutdowns, and more recently by what t
he Fed chief
called the "much smaller" shock from tariffs.
"We're getting now an energy shock: no one knows how big it will be. It's way too early to know,"
Powell
said. Oil prices were mixed
on Monday, with Brent futures trading around 0.7 per cent lower at US$111.81 a barrel and US West Texas Intermediate futures gaining 2.7 per cent to US$102.36
. Both benchmarks have surged since the conflict began on Feb 28.
"STICK TO WHAT WE'RE DOING"
A
survey released
by the University of Michigan last week
showed
a jump in household price expectations in the coming year.
Other measures, including a widely watched market-based gauge, have been more sanguine.
Powell
's remarks were "quite textbook and quite in line with what he said before," said Oliver Allen, senior US economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "The
Fed
is kind of in a holding pattern until we find a little more about the shape and scope and size of this energy shock that's ahead of us."
Powell
gamely fielded a range of questions from the course's two professors - David Laibson and Jason Furman - as well as from students in the audience, touching on concerns about private credit, the
Fed
's balance sheet, t
he impact of artificial intelligence
and his optimistic medium-term view of the US economy despite a
low
-hire labor market
that has made it especially difficult for
new college graduates
to find jobs
.
Asked to give advice to former
Fed
Governor Kevin Warsh, US President Donald Trump's
nominee to succeed him
as h
ead of the central bank
when P
owell's
leadership term ends May 15, t
he current Fed chief
demurred in the specifics.
Related:
WTO suffers fresh blow as e-commerce reform push hits a wall at Cameroon meeting
P
owell
,
however,
did offer the observation that the
Fed
should resist any temptation to use its tools for anything beyond meeting its congressionally mandated goals of keeping prices steady and maximizing employment.
"We're not trying to work against any politician or any administration, but we have to be careful to stick to what we're doing," said
Powell
, whom Trump has repeatedly attacked for keeping borrowing costs too high.
Warsh has indicated he would support cutting interest rates.
One student asked how a rate cut would affect the
Fed
's ability to keep doing both of its jobs, given that inflation remains elevated amid the tariffs imposed
by the Trump administration and
the
recent oil
shock.
Powell
observed that the student who lobbed the question
was wearing
a
Boston Red
Sox b
aseball jersey.
"That's not something I'm going to swing at, that pitch,"
Powell
said.
Source: Reuters/fs
Sign up for our newsletters
Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox
Subscribe here
Get the CNA app
Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories
Download here
Get WhatsApp alerts
Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app
Join here
Related Topics
Jerome Powell
US-Israel war on Iran
Federal Reserve
Advertisement
Also worth reading
Content is loading...
Advertisement
Expand to read the full story
Get bite-sized news via a new
cards interface. Give it a try.
Click here to return to FAST
Tap here to return to FAST
FAST
This browser is no longer supported
We know it's a hassle to switch browsers but we want your experience with CNA to be fast, secure and the best it can possibly be.
To continue, upgrade to a supported browser or, for the finest experience, download the mobile app.
Upgraded but still having issues?
Contact us