# FBI says man who crashed truck into Michigan synagogue was inspired by Hezbollah

Source: https://www.scmp.com/news/world/united-states-canada/article/3348458/fbi-says-man-who-crashed-his-truck-michigan-synagogue-was-inspired-hezbollah?utm_source=rss_feed

---

FBI says man who crashed his truck into Michigan synagogue was inspired by Hezbollah | South China Morning Post
Advertisement
Gun violence in the US
World
United States & Canada
FBI says man who crashed his truck into Michigan synagogue was inspired by Hezbollah
Ayman Ghazali’s March 12 attack was a ‘Hezbollah-inspired act of terrorism purposely targeting the Jewish community’, the FBI said
2
-MIN READ
2
-MIN
Listen
Associated Press
Published:
5:00am, 31 Mar 2026
A man who crashed his pickup truck into a Detroit-area synagogue earlier in March was carrying out an attack inspired by the Iran-backed group Hezbollah and had sought to inflict as much damage as possible, the FBI said on Monday.
Ayman Ghazali made a video before the
attack at Temple Israel
in West Bloomfield Township, saying he wanted to “kill as many of them as I possibly can”, said Jennifer Runyan, head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Detroit, who announced new information more than two weeks after.
Ghazali, 41, of Dearborn Heights sat in the car park for a few hours on March 12 before smashing his truck through closed doors and into the hallway of an early childhood education area, striking a security guard.
Advertisement
No one else among the 150 children and staff was injured.
It was a “Hezbollah-inspired act of terrorism purposely targeting the Jewish community and the largest Jewish temple in Michigan”, Runyan said.
Advertisement
She cited videos and other images discovered on Ghazali’s social media accounts in which he embraced vengeance and Hezbollah’s militant ideology. Runyan said he searched for Michigan synagogues and Jewish cultural sites a few days before the attack before settling on Temple Israel, even looking up the time for lunch.
Runyan said there was no way to know whether Ghazali knew children would be present at the time.
Advertisement
Select Voice
Select Speed
0.8x
0.9x
1.0x
1.1x
1.2x
1.5x
1.75x
00:00
00:00
1.00
x