# New French Club for Uruguayan Captain - Americas Rugby News

Source: https://www.americasrugbynews.com/2026/03/25/new-french-club-for-uruguayan-captain/

---

New French Club for Uruguayan Captain - Americas Rugby News
Foto Crédito: Prensa URU
New French Club for Uruguayan Captain
Americas Rugby News
March 25, 2026
France
,
Others
,
Uruguay
Leave a comment
156 Views
Uruguayan captain Manuel Leindekar’s playing future will continue to be in France. The big (2,05m, 117 kg) second-rower will be joining Grenoble next season from his current club, Oyonnax.
Leindekar is in his second season at Oyonnax. He has made eleven Pro D2 appearances thus far in the 2025-2026 season. He arrived at the club from Bayonne (Top 14). His time at Bayonne (2022-2024) came after he had previously also played for Oyonnax (2017-2022).
His early arrival win France as an academy player means that he is classified as a
Joueur Issue des Filières de Formation
JIFF player. It is thus advantageous for French clubs to have him on their roster.
The signing comes as the Pro D2 enters the late stages of the regular season. Teams are competing for playoff’s spaces. Grenoble are presently in 9th spot on 49 points. Oyonnax are 4th on 62 points while Brive are 6th on 29 points. The Top 6 will contest the playoffs.
The 28-year-old captained Uruguay to the
Sudamérica
1 spot for Rugby World Cup 2027.
Los Teros
overcame South American opposition to book their spot in Australia 2027. It looms as being Leindekar’s third Rugby World Cup tournament. He featured in Japan 2019 and France 2023 and was
involved in wins over Fiji
and
Namibia
.
Foto Crédito: URU
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Tags
Pro D2
Top 14
About Americas Rugby News
Formally created in June 2015, this website's goal is to increase media exposure of the Tier 2 rugby nations, and create a hub with a focus on the stories of rugby in the Americas - North, Central and South.
@americasrugby
Previous
Brazil Qualify for World Rugby U20 Challenger Cup
Next
Super Rugby Americas 2026 – Week Six – ARN Guide
Related Articles
Brazil Women and Belgium Men Win SVNS 2 titles in São Paulo
March 29, 2026
Peñarol Scrape Past Yacare in Montevideo
March 28, 2026
Super Rugby Americas 2026 – Week Six – ARN Guide
March 26, 2026
Check Also
Brazil Qualify for World Rugby U20 Challenger Cup
Os Curumins defeated Paraguay at the Jockey Club de Rosario in Argentina. The hard-fought 27-24 …
Powered by
WordPress
| Designed by
Tielabs
© Copyright 2026, All Rights Reserved