# SAFE approvals unlock defence funding for Czechia and France

Source: https://defence-industry-space.ec.europa.eu/safe-approvals-unlock-defence-funding-czechia-and-france-2026-03-26_en

---

SAFE approvals unlock defence funding for Czechia and France - European Commission
Skip to main content
SAFE approvals unlock defence funding for Czechia and France
Following the approval of the
first
and
second wave of defence funding
, the European Commission has cleared two national defence plans under
the Security Action for Europe (SAFE) initiative
, further strengthening the Union's security and readiness.
News article
26 March 2026
Directorate-General for Defence Industry and Space
2 min read
The Commission submitted a proposal to the Council to approve financial assistance for Czechia and France.
The funding levels for each country were
provisionally set in September
,
based on principles of solidarity and transparency. Czechia and France will be respectively entitled to €2.06 billion and €15.09 billion after the loan agreements are signed.
These funds will provide a vital boost to strategic capabilities where they are needed most.
Next steps
With the Commission's assessment complete, the Council now
has four weeks to adopt
the implementing decisions
. Once approved, the Commission will finalise the loan agreements, with the first payments expected to hit the ground in April 2026.
The Council has already adopted the implementing decisions for 16 Member States.
Background
The SAFE Regulation was adopted on 27 May 2025, as part of the
Readiness 2030
, an ambitious defence package providing financial levers to EU Member States to drive an investment surge in defence capabilities.
SAFE will allow Member States to immediately and massively scale up their defence investments through joint procurement from the European defence industry, focusing on priority capabilities. This will contribute to ensuring interoperability, predictability, and reducing costs for a strong European defence industrial base. Ukraine and EFTA/EEA countries will be able to join common procurement, and it will be possible to buy from their industries.
SAFE will also allow acceding countries, candidate countries, potential candidates and countries having signed Security and Defence Partnerships with the EU to join common procurement and contribute to aggregated demand. They can also negotiate specific, mutually beneficial agreements on the participation of their respective industries in such procurement.
For more information
White Paper for European Defence and the ReArm Europe Plan - Readiness 2030
SAFE
Commission approves first wave of defence funding for eight Member States under SAFE
Commission approves second wave of SAFE defence funding for eight Member States
Details
Publication date
26 March 2026
Author
Directorate-General for Defence Industry and Space
Share this page